Place flour, eggs, and extra-virgin olive oil in a food processor. Process until a dough forms. Wrap in plastic wrap and rest in fridge for 30 minutes.
Remove dough. Divide into 4 pieces. Dust each piece with flour. Roll through pasta machine at the thickest setting. Repeat this process gradually decreasing the number setting. Stop when the dough has finished the second to last setting.
Cut the dough into 1 1/2 x 1 1/2-inch squares. Roll each square diagonally over a dowel, chopstick, or finger. Press to seal at the end of the square. Lay out on a baking sheet that has been lined with parchment paper or wax paper dusted with semolina flour. Continue until all the pasta has been formed into little "quills.”
Set aside pasta in a fridge, or freeze if being cooked on another day.
For the mushroom ragu: 
In a food processor, chop a few mushrooms at a time until they are all finely chopped (almost pureed; they will look like mush). Periodically scrape down the sides of the food processor.
In a large Dutch oven, heat oil over medium-high heat. Add onions and season generously with salt. Once onions are soft and slightly caramelized, add tomato paste and pinch red chili flakes. Cook for another 5 to 10 minutes, stirring constantly. The paste should caramelize slightly but not burn.
Add chopped mushrooms. Cook for 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. (This will look like a wet mess at first. Over time, the liquid will cook off, and the mushrooms will take on a dark, caramelized color.)
Add wine to deglaze. Scrape bottom of pot to remove any stuck-on mushroom bits. Stir constantly and cook until mixture is dry and wine has completely evaporated.
Add heavy cream. Simmer for 10 minutes. Taste and adjust seasoning.
Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Season generously with salt. The water should taste like the sea. If using fresh garganelli, cook in the boiling salted water for 3 to 5 min. If using dried pasta, cook according to the package instructions.
While the pastas cooks, keep the ragu over low heat. When al dente, remove the pasta and add it to the sauce.
Add pinch red chili flakes, butter, and the Parmesan. Stir to combine. Add 1⁄4 cup pasta water to help emulsify sauce. Taste and adjust seasoning.
Serve in warm bowls; sprinkle shaved ricotta salata on top.
Place a large sauté pan over moderate heat and add the canola oil. 
Add the mustard seeds and cook until they pop like popcorn. 
Add the onions and continue to cook over moderate heat until they cook down and start to caramelize.
Add the ginger and garlic to the pan, cooking for about 4 minutes.
Ad the cumin, cayenne, and turmeric and cook for 2 minutes. Then, add the tomatoes and cook until the entire mixture thickens. Season with salt, to taste. (This mixture can be pre-made and kept in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.)
Stir in the English peas and fresh chilies, combining until they heat up in the mixture.
Finally, stir in the homemade paneer, mint, and cilantro. Mix well and season with salt, to taste. Serve with crusty bread.
 For the homemade paneer: 
In a large pan, slow bring the milk to a boil, stirring occasionally. Once the milk is boiling, stir in the salt.
Add the lime juice gradually, gently stirring to curdle the milk. Once the curd separates, let cook for 1 minute.
Shock the mixture with ice, then drain into a single layer of cheese cloth. The paneer should be soft, moist, and creamy.  (For firmer paneer: Drain it for longer. For solid paneer: Place it into a muslin cloth and into a paneer mold; press it with a lid and put a water-filled jar or bowl on top to apply pressure; remove the paneer from the mold after 1-2 hours.)
If you don't plan on using the paneer right away, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. 
Preheat oven to 400° F.
Spread pork bones out on a heavy-duty rimmed baking sheet and roast for 30 minutes.
After 30 minutes, carefully flip bones with a metal spatula and tongs and add carrots and onions to pan, piling vegetables on top of the bones. Roast for 30 more minutes, until vegetables begin to char around edges and bones begin to caramelize. 
Transfer bones and vegetables to a large stockpot. Add 14 cups water, reserving the last ½ cup to deglaze the roasting sheet, using a metal spatula to scrape up all the browned bits before adding mixture to stockpot. Water should be covering bones by about an inch. 
In a small bowl, whisk tamarind paste, tomato paste, and 2 tablespoons water from the stockpot. Whisk this mixture into the stockpot. 
Heat stock over medium-high heat until nearly boiling, and then reduce to a slow simmer.
Continue simmering (uncovered) for 2 hours.  
After 2 hours, using a sieve, strain out vegetables, pressing down on solids so liquids go back into stockpot. One at a time, carefully take out bones and put them on a plate near your stockpot. Using small tongs and a fork (or two forks) remove the meat. Transfer meat (should have between 3-4 cups depending on how meaty your bones were) to a container with a tight fitting lid and refrigerate. Return bones, including cartilage and fat, and any liquid that may have accumulated on the plate, to stockpot. Continue simmering for 1 hour. At this point, you can allow mixture to cool slightly before refrigerating overnight. I found that transferring stock to another pot nestled in a large pan filled with ice and water helped cool down the stock more quickly in order to transfer pot to refrigerator. The next day, remove congealed fat layer from surface of stock before simmering for a final hour, adding the smoked ham hock, whole cilantro plants and scallions. Strain out hock and aromatics with a sieve, pressing down on solids to allow liquids back into stock. Repeat cooling and refrigerating step. 
Alternatively, you can make the stock in one day by adding the smoked hock and aromatics after three hours of simmering (skipping the extra overnight in the fridge), and continue cooking for the final hour. Cool stock enough to refrigerate overnight (see above in step 8).
Seasonings For the Soup -- Finishing the Soup 
Take stock out of refrigerator and remove congealed fat layer from the surface of soup (stock should be more like jelly than liquid).  
Heat stock over medium-high heat until nearly boiling, and then reduce to a slow simmer.
If you have them, use a suribachi (ceramic Japanese mortar with rough grooves on the inside of the bowl) and surikogi (wooden pestle) to grind katsuo furikake into a paste. If you do not, a regular mortar and pestle will also work. Add ½ t sesame oil midway through grinding to help mixture come together.  
When almost all of the sesame seeds are mashed, add in 1 T of gojuchang. If you know you love heat, add 2 T. As you turn the pestle around the mortar, the gojuchang will ball up around the sesame seed mixture. Whisk this into the stock and allow soup to simmer for 20 minutes. If there is still a lot of sesame-gojuchang paste stuck in the mortar, add a little bit of stock to the bowl, stir, and pour mixture into the pot. 
Turn off heat.
Place miso paste in a small bowl and whisk in enough hot stock (2-3 T) to liquefy the miso. Pour this into stock and stir to incorporate. Allow mixture to cool and refrigerate overnight. 
Remove your soup from the refrigerator and slowly heat it up.  
In another pot, cook rice vermicelli according to directions on the package, and then drain in a colander, rinsing with some cold water to stop the noodles from cooking. 
In a skillet large enough to hold pork and cabbage, heat sesame oil over medium heat.  
Add chopped pork and stir to heat through. Add cabbage and stir to take off raw edge. Turn off heat, stir in balsamic and a pinch of salt.  
Portion rice noodles into soup bowls. 
Top each bowl with pork and cabbage.
Ladle steaming broth over each bowl.
Generously add chopped green onions and cilantro to each bowl and serve immediately. Enjoy!