When I was a kid, we didn't have smartphones or the internet — all we had was a TV. But we didn't care because as we watched, we got to enjoy a little something called a "TV dinner." The king of those dinners, in my opinion, was the Salisbury steak, which is what I'll show you how to make here, along with one of the greatest gravies ever invented. Serve with buttered mashed potatoes and a vegetable side of your choice. 
I don’t mean to be cocky, but this chili really is the best ever (at least the best I've ever made). And it's dirt cheap! While beef is usually my protein of choice for this purpose, it’s expensive here in Israel. So I decided to give leaner, cheaper turkey chili a whirl -- and I got to watch as they freshly ground the turkey breast for me at the shuk. 
I’ve made a decent amount of chili in my day: We usually make it at least once a year and have been known to host a chili party. It’s the perfect cold weather comfort food, and when I was home in New York in December I couldn’t seem to get enough of it. I usually make a decent chili, but I can get a little heavy-handed. I add too much jalapeño or beer or cinnamon. But this time, everything was in perfect harmony -- the ingredients balanced each other to create a hearty, highly satisfying chili. Also, for the first time I measured and wrote down ingredients as I went instead of haphazardly throwing things in the pot. Which means, lucky for me, I can recreate this again. This is a fairly mild chili, but it can be easily spiced up with jalapeño peppers (I just forgot to get them). Enjoy it with a cold beer -- the Leffe I cooked with was a perfect complement, although a cheaper beer would be just as good!
My noodle soup haiku:  I love noodle soup.  Laksa, Tan Tan, Bun Rieu Chay!  Slurpy noodle joy.
I do love noodle soup but have seldom taken the time to make a rich, flavorful broth.  I decided now was as good a time as any, and figured pork would be a good place to start.  Going in I knew that this would not be an eat-the-same-day-you-make-it soup. This is the long road, the start on Friday eat on Sunday kind of soup. Having never made pork-based stock before, I remembered cookinginvictoria’s rich Sunday Pork Ragu used pork neck bones and that they ended up being one of my favorite parts of the dish. I decided to roast them, to deepen the flavor of the stock and added some carrots and onion, for their earthy sweetness. I also chose to add a ham hock in the last hour of cooking for its salt and smoke, as well as whole cilantro and green onion for another layer of flavor (a trick I learned from making a chicken soup from Hot Sour Salty Sweet). Thinking of my favorite tan tan ramen I knew I wanted a sesame element but could not source any Asian sesame paste. Realizing I could simply grind my own sesame paste, I decided to use a gift my dad had recently brought back from Japan – a mixture of roasted sesame seeds and bonito flakes (katsuo furikake) for added richness. For heat and salt, I used gojuchang (another timely gift) and a little aka miso – both having the dark, roasted notes I was looking for.  The pork bones I found were extremely meaty and I was happy to be able to use the meat for the soup (though ground pork would be a good substitute). Far from traditional, the addition of balsamic vinegar adds a much-needed splash of acid. Enjoy! N.B. In experimenting with this recipe, I had an unexpected surprise. After one to two days of cooking (depending on how long you take to make the basic stock) the seasonings need at least an overnight in the fridge to bloom. Eaten immediately after adding them, the stock is shockingly bland. Allowing the mixture to cool overnight (or a few days) marries them in a flavorful way – suddenly all the taste you expected is there.
My boyfriend and I are long-distance, so we get to see each other about once every three months. When we are together, we like to cook, explore whichever city we’re in (usually Berkeley or New York City, where we each live respectively), and spend a healthy amount of time vegging out on the couch watching Netflix (Chef’s Table, Parks & Rec, you know, the modern classics). While we try not to schedule out our time too strictly, there’s one tradition we’ve yet to break: date night.
We take this quarterly date night very seriously, and spend weeks picking out a restaurant with the right balance of menu options (he's a vegetarian, so there’s got to be at least a few different choices for him), ambience (romantic, not stuffy), and budget (sometimes we splurge, sometimes we keep it low-key). For some reason, we always gravitate towards Italian food, and that helps narrow down our choices.
Past winners have included Acquerello in San Francisco (a very worth-it splurge) and Lilia in Brooklyn (excellent and wonderfully priced), but there’s one dish I haven’t been able to stop thinking about since one date night from about a year ago: the mushroom ragu with garganelli at L’Artusi in New York City’s West Village.  Tubular little bites of fresh garganelli pasta wrapped in a creamy, luxurious sauce of nothing-but-mushroom flavor. At the same time, it was meaty and hearty, filling enough to make me ignore the buttery cacio e pepe sitting across the table—and my boyfriend. The cherry on top of the ragu: a generous layer of shaved ricotta salata, a dried, salted ricotta cheese.
It was love at first bite. I immediately wanted to know the secrets behind its silky texture, mushroomy goodness, and—whoa—completely vegetarian ingredients list. Surely, there must be some complicated technique or sneaky component hiding within the recipe. After 379 or so odd days (but who’s counting?) after tasting, and subsequently dreaming, about this ragu, I finally tracked down L’Artusi’s executive chef, Joe Vigorito, to lift the curtain.
The formula behind this decades-old recipe, he revealed, is shockingly simple—and will probably never, ever change. It’s been on the menu from the beginning, and if it ever leaves, “there would probably be an uprising,” he said. But because “there are no bells and whistles, you’ve got to get everything right.”
Salmorejo Cordobés is a cold tomato soup from the Andalusian region of Spain. It's a smoother, more luscious version of its Andalusian cousin, gazpacho, and is served with toppings like hard-boiled egg, jamón, and olive oily tuna, giving it an extra touch of texture and sustenance.
Back when I lived in Madrid, my roommate from Sevilla showed me how to make salmorejo, and ever since, it's been one of my summer staples. In fact, I'll be serving it by the (biodegradable) cupful at Joan y Cati, my husband and my new sandwich shop & takeaway eatery in Mallorca, España. As you can imagine, I've been doing a lot of recipe testing lately and that means daily trips to the market. A pro tip I recently learned from one of the vendors: "pear" tomatoes are the best for making salmorejo. But above all, choose whichever tomatoes are at their peak ripeness. 
When I'm not preparing it myself, my favorite salmorejo spot is Bar Alfalfa in Sevilla. There you can order it the classic way: in a bowl, topped with the traditional "taquitos" of jamón, chopped HB egg and a drizzle of good, Andalusian olive oil. Or, you can order their Brusquetta Andaluza—a thick toast or "pan de pueblo," with a generous spread of salmorejo, fresh mozzarella cheese, and chopped jamón—essentially a dressed down bread bowl. Either vessel does the trick. Que aproveche!
Every time a guest enters one of my restaurants, I want them to feel as though they are coming into an Indian home. I want them to enjoy the vibrant flavors, spices, and fresh ingredients, my friends and I grew up eating. This stir fry of soft paneer and peas, with a masala (which basically just means "mix") of tomatoes, onion, ginger, garlic, and spices, incorporates all of those elements. The trick for me is to get the paneer (I make it home made using organic milk) soft and creamy, so that it folds in with the other elements—fresh-cut chilies, blanched English peas, and herbs—of the dish. I like to serve it with a slice of bread or piece of a baguette, but you can also eat it with a roti, naan, or pita bread. 