I don’t mean to be cocky, but this chili really is the best ever (at least the best I've ever made). And it's dirt cheap! While beef is usually my protein of choice for this purpose, it’s expensive here in Israel. So I decided to give leaner, cheaper turkey chili a whirl -- and I got to watch as they freshly ground the turkey breast for me at the shuk. 
I’ve made a decent amount of chili in my day: We usually make it at least once a year and have been known to host a chili party. It’s the perfect cold weather comfort food, and when I was home in New York in December I couldn’t seem to get enough of it. I usually make a decent chili, but I can get a little heavy-handed. I add too much jalapeño or beer or cinnamon. But this time, everything was in perfect harmony -- the ingredients balanced each other to create a hearty, highly satisfying chili. Also, for the first time I measured and wrote down ingredients as I went instead of haphazardly throwing things in the pot. Which means, lucky for me, I can recreate this again. 
This is a fairly mild chili, but it can be easily spiced up with jalapeño peppers (I just forgot to get them). Enjoy it with a cold beer -- the Leffe I cooked with was a perfect complement, although a cheaper beer would be just as good! —kmartinelli WHO: Kmartinelli is a food and travel writer who has spent the past three years in Be’er Sheva, Israel.
A good reason to break out your thermos.  
Sauté and season red pepper, onion, and garlic. Add ground turkey and, when it's nice and brown, some dark beer. Pour in a can of tomatoes, a can of beans, and hot sauce, then let the chili simmer until it’s thick (we recommend making a baked potato in the meantime). Top with all the fixings. 
WHY WE LOVE IT: The amount of STUFF in chili can sometimes make for an overwhelming eating experience, but not in this case. This recipe makes careful choices about the meat (turkey), beans (kidney), and spices (paprika, coriander, oregano, and cinnamon), which means you can adjust the heat however you’d like (and add toppings aplenty). —The Editors See what other Food52ers are saying. Our best tips for eating thoughtfully and living joyfully, right in your inbox.