Recipes Dinner Pasta 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
Prep time
      45 minutes
     
Cook time
      1 hour 
     
Serves
    4 to 6
   
Test Kitchen-Approved
 For the garganelli:  
4 cups

all-purpose flour 
6

eggs 
1 tablespoon

extra-virgin olive oil 
1/2 cup

semolina flour For the mushroom ragu: 
2 1/2 pounds

cremini mushrooms, cleaned and quartered 
1/3 cup

extra-virgin olive oil 
1

large Spanish onion, diced 
1 dash

salt, plus more if needed 
1/3 cup

tomato paste 
1 pinch

red chili flakes, plus 1 pinch, divided 
1 cup

dry white cooking wine 
1 cup

heavy cream 
2 tablespoons

butter, cut into small pieces 
1/4 cup

grated Parmesan 
1/4 cup

pasta water 

Shaved ricotta salata, for serving For the garganelli:  
Place flour, eggs, and extra-virgin olive oil in a food processor. Process until a dough forms. Wrap in plastic wrap and rest in fridge for 30 minutes.
 
Remove dough. Divide into 4 pieces. Dust each piece with flour. Roll through pasta machine at the thickest setting. Repeat this process gradually decreasing the number setting. Stop when the dough has finished the second to last setting.
 
Cut the dough into 1 1/2 x 1 1/2-inch squares. Roll each square diagonally over a dowel, chopstick, or finger. Press to seal at the end of the square. Lay out on a baking sheet that has been lined with parchment paper or wax paper dusted with semolina flour. Continue until all the pasta has been formed into little "quills.”
 
Set aside pasta in a fridge, or freeze if being cooked on another day.
 For the mushroom ragu: 
In a food processor, chop a few mushrooms at a time until they are all finely chopped (almost pureed; they will look like mush). Periodically scrape down the sides of the food processor.
 
In a large Dutch oven, heat oil over medium-high heat. Add onions and season generously with salt. Once onions are soft and slightly caramelized, add tomato paste and pinch red chili flakes. Cook for another 5 to 10 minutes, stirring constantly. The paste should caramelize slightly but not burn.
 
Add chopped mushrooms. Cook for 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. (This will look like a wet mess at first. Over time, the liquid will cook off, and the mushrooms will take on a dark, caramelized color.)
 
Add wine to deglaze. Scrape bottom of pot to remove any stuck-on mushroom bits. Stir constantly and cook until mixture is dry and wine has completely evaporated.
 
Add heavy cream. Simmer for 10 minutes. Taste and adjust seasoning.
 
Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Season generously with salt. The water should taste like the sea. If using fresh garganelli, cook in the boiling salted water for 3 to 5 min. If using dried pasta, cook according to the package instructions.
 
While the pastas cooks, keep the ragu over low heat. When al dente, remove the pasta and add it to the sauce.
 
Add pinch red chili flakes, butter, and the Parmesan. Stir to combine. Add 1⁄4 cup pasta water to help emulsify sauce. Taste and adjust seasoning.
 
Serve in warm bowls; sprinkle shaved ricotta salata on top.
 Pasta Italian Milk/Cream Parmesan Ricotta Wine Mushroom Sunday Dinner Anniversary Entertaining Party Weekend Cooking 





Sharada Sridhar

 





panania

 





velvet.onion

 





daisybrain

 





pnd1974

 
About Us
 
DEI Vision
 
The Test Kitchen
 
Podcast Network
 
Events
 
Press
 
Jobs
 
Affiliate Program
 
Sitemap
 
Contact & FAQ
 
Orders & Returns
 
Food52 Trade
 
Request a Catalog
 
Gift Cards
 
Registry
 
Advertising Inquiries
 
Do Not Sell
 
The Shop
 
Recipes
 
Food
 
Home52
 
Travel
 
Hotline
 
Five Two
 
Schoolhouse
 
Dansk
 
Rewards
