Out of other restaurants come celebrity chefs; at Hell’s Backbone Grill, Spalding and Castle have become activist chefs instead. In doing so, they have learned the lesson of countless other outspoken citizens before them: when you stand up, you stick out. They do their best to brush off vicious Facebook comments and hostile visitors and bad-faith bad reviews (“People write us shitty Trip Advisors and I’m like, ‘You didn’t even eat here,’ but whatever,” Spalding says), and they’ve learned that denatured alcohol and sandpaper will remove graffiti written in permanent marker. (“Liberals are the new Nazis,” someone scrawled this month in both of the restaurant’s bathrooms.) Other things, however, are harder to ignore. Last summer Spalding, speaking at a major pro-monument rally in Salt Lake City, criticized Utah’s government for not defending public lands. Not long afterward she and Castle were notified that Hell’s Backbone Grill had been selected for a comprehensive four-year audit by the state. The only other two vocally pro-monument businesses in Boulder were also audited. Whether or not the move was punitive, they worry about other forms of retaliation and find themselves increasingly embattled. “There’s not a day that goes by “that I don’t feel like we’re doing some kind of hand-to-hand combat,” Spalding said. “The effect it’s had on us and our staff is extremely destabilizing.
“It remains to be seen what other effects the shrinking of Grand Staircase will have on Hell’s Backbone Grill. Boulder is still a gateway town, only to a much smaller monument with a different name, Escalante Canyons. It is also now the gateway town to the first industrial incursion since Trump’s proclamation. In June a Canadian mining company acquired cobalt and copper claims on land that was previously part of the monument. Those will likely be rendered void if the Trump administration loses in court, but in the meantime—and the meantime could last a long time—the company has announced plans to begin surface exploration soon and drilling shortly afterward.
If those and other developments proceed, Spalding and Castle know that their days at Hell’s Backbone Grill could be numbered. People seldom make reservations months in advance to eat at restaurants in mining towns, or plan sightseeing vacations or cycling tours near trucking routes and pit mines. What took two entrepreneurs twenty years to build could be gone in a fraction of that time, together with things that took nature 20,000 centuries.
That kind of rapid destruction has happened in the region before. When the first ranchers arrived “in Boulder, they encountered nearly ideal rangeland: dense with bluegrass and bunchgrass and wild oats, veined with natural troughs to channel the rain. In the words of Nethella Woolsey, the daughter of the rancher John King, who arrived in time to enjoy the bounty, those were the “good old days”: there was nothing to do but turn your livestock out on the range, and no fees to pay in order to do so. Word soon spread, and men began bringing in cattle and sheep by the thousands.


